[MUSIC]
So in this lecture,
we'll discuss some of the basic equipment
that you're going to be using when you're
building your internet of things devices.
And some of the basic equipment that we'll
be talking about through the class we'll
assume that you're using just to make
things a little more concrete so you see.
I've been more generic
in the earlier lectures
about the general type of equipment,
but now we'll actually
point to the specific things that
we're going to cover in this class.
Then when you do the capstone you'll be
using this type of equipment when you do
your capstone.
So first, the main thing we're gonna use
is a development board of some kind.
It's a board that has
a microcontroller on it,
which is, of course,
the center of all these projects.
The center of these systems is gonna
be some microcontroller with some
code running on it.
So, the picture that we have here,
is actually an arduino board.
And that black chip on the board,
is actually the microcontroller itself.
Now, there's other hardware on the board.
There are interfaces like, for instance,
you can see USB interface on the side.
There are a bunch of holes on
the side that you can't see yet,
but those are plugs we're
going to plug wires into.
We'll do that later.
There's a power.
And often there are other
interfaces on the board.
So there are other
There are also the chips on the board and
other devices on the board.
So there's the microcontroller, but
there are other things that
are used on the board.
Generally the board,
those development boards, what they are,
for the most part, the main thing they
have to have is a microcontroller, that
you're gonna program, but also hardware on
the board to program the microcontroller.
So basically, data has to get taken from
the USB cable typically, so this has a USB
port, has to get taken from the USB cable,
which is connected to your host.
Has to get taken from the USB and
programmed into the flash memory of
the microcontroller, when you want to
put a program onto the microcontroller.
So, typically these boards are minimally
they will have equipment on there,
hardware on the board who's job
it is to read the USB cable and
take the data that is received on there
and program it onto the microcontroller.
That's sort of a minimum thing that you're
going to find on these development boards.
A lot of different development
boards have lots of different extra
equipment in addition to that.
Maybe you have compasses,
accelerometer, magnetometer.
All sorts of extra components
you can find on these boards.
Touch sensitive screens, all this stuff.
But the basic board is just what I've
been talking about right now and
the boards that we're using,
certainly Arduino is pretty basic.
It has basically what I just said.
That's an Arduino right there.
It has very little else
besides the microcontroller,
the hardware used to program
the microcontroller, plus the interfaces,
USB and the pins and stuff like that.
That's basically all an Arduino has on it.
Now, we're also going to
use a Raspberry Pie and
we'll go into that in more detail later.
That has more things on it.
That actually has an accelerometer on it.
It has a magnetometer, meaning a compass.
It has a few other things on it.
But it's mostly pretty bare.
It has a processor on it too,
a microcontroller on it, too.
I'll say it's a higher end microcontroller
than what you find on our Arduino.
But that's the core of the system,
so that's how we're gonna start.
We're gonna take these development boards,
plug them in by USB to our host,
our laptop, desktop.
Write code on the laptop, desktop.
Program it onto the microcontroller
on the development board.
Now other equipment you're gonna get.
USB cable, clearly,
just to connect the board up.
Ethernet cable is a common piece of
equipment I dont know if we'll be
using that.
But ethernet is common because a lot
of these boards have ethernet cables,
have ethernet jacks because we
want them to be networked, right?
We're talking about internet of things so
it's common to have an ethernet jack.
Raspberry Pie does,
standard Arduino does not.
But it's common that they
have ethernet jacks and
then you would need an ethernet
cable to connect to that.
Jumper wires.
So you're going to need a set of wires.
You'll get a set of wires to plug
into the input pins of the board.
So that Arduino we saw on the last slide,
it had several holes.
You can plug wires into those
holes to connect up other things.
Different inputs.
These are components that we will
commonly use as input components, so
essentially sensors.
So potentiometer,
potentiometer is a sensor that senses
how much turn, sense of rotation.
So if you turn something more,
turn to the left, turn to the right,
it changes the resistance
between two signals.
And you can use that as a rotation sensor.
So if you wanna implement a volume knob or
something like that,
you can use a potentiometer and
sense how much it's turned.
Photoresistor, so that's something
that senses the brightness.
So the brightness of the light will change
the resistance on a certain resistor,
and you can sense that.
A keypad, that's another common component,
just a bunch of buttons put together.
Buttons, individual buttons,
that's another input and
common piece of equipment,
and we'll have some of these.
Some of the outputs, LEDs, so
those are light emitting diodes,
you've seen those little lights that
turn off and on, light emitting diodes.
Resistors, we'll talk about those later,
they don't do much.
They consume power and they change
voltage for us, but simple components.
We're also going to use a breadboard.
Now a breadboard, actually I have
a picture of that on the next slide.
So breadboards are for wiring.
So we're going to have a bunch
of these components and
we're going to need to connect
these components together.
So how do we connect them?
Well there are several ways.
One way is to solder things and
we are not going to do that.
Soldering is a more permanent connection
where you take two pieces of wire,
two pieces of metal you wanna connect,
you'd take a hot iron touch it
to the joint,
bring some solder which is softer metal,
you melt it onto the joint and it forms
a seal and it connects them electrically.
So that soldering.
We won't do soldering, because soldering,
well several things, but
the main thing is soldering is more
permanent and we're just prototyping.
I mean, you're gonna be trying things and
trying things again, trying things again.
Making mistakes, trying again.
So soldering is too time consuming.
Soldering is more permanent.
In the end, when you're done,
you know everything works,
then you might solder things together.
But we're not in that mode,
we're gonna be using a breadboard.
So breadboard is for non-permanent wiring.
So basically it's got a bunch of holes,
a board with a bunch of holes.
And these holes fit 24 gauge wire,
which is the common wire size for
components like this.
And these holes
are connected electrically.
There are rows of five holes, you can see
there, and if you put a wire into one
hole in a row of five, all the other holes
in the same row of five are connected.
So you can plug two wires into two
different holes on the same row of five
and they are connected.
And that's how you connect components.
So you can plug one connection from
a component into one hole in the row and
plug another component into
another hole in the same row, and
then those two components are connected.
Okay.
So this is how we're going to be
doing wiring.
We're gonna have our breadboard and
we connect things in that way.
And if you look at the breadboard,
it's got these rows of five, but
then along the left and right sides,
you got these columns, right.
These two columns on the left, two columns
on the right with breaks in between.
But basically, two on the left,
two on the right.
So those columns are actually
wired differently.
They're not wired horizontally
like those rows of five.
They're wired in columns.
So those two columns on the left, all
holes in the same column are connected to
each other, and all holes in the next
column are connected to each other.
Same thing on the other side.
All holes on the one column and
all holes on the next are connected.
So traditionally those columns
are used for power and
ground because usually when you make
a system, you have a lot of chips and
a lot of different components in there and
a lot of them need to receive power and
need to be connected to ground, so
it helps to distribute power and
ground across the whole circuit to just
put power and ground into those rows,
those columns, rather.
So, put power into one column.
Ground into another.
Then anything you want to
connect to power and ground,
you don't have to run a long wire.
You just run a wire straight to that
column, to the nearest hole on the column.
So, we'll be using breadboards
to connect up our components and
it's very common for prototyping and
it's made a specific size.
It's a common size.
Here's a typical circuit.
This is just one possible circuit but
there's an Arduino.
And this Arduino,
it's connected to some LEDs.
You can see those red LEDs that
are in the breadboard, right.
So the LEDs are plugged into holes
in the breadboard, the two leads.
An LED has two leads, two wires, that
are connected to holes in the breadboard.
They're also resisters.
I don't know if you can see them.
But those little components that
connect from the LEDs to the bottom row
that those are called resistors.
And we'll talk about that circuitry.
Basically you always want to put
an LED in series with a resistor.
If not, then if you don't then what'll
happen is you'll draw too much current
through the LED and you'll blow it out,
it'll will burn out.
It will be very bright for a second and
then you'll here a pop and
it will be gone.
You put resisters in there
just to slow down the current,
basically to reduce the current.
Not slow it down but to reduce
the amount of current that goes through.
And the other side of the LED is connected
by those blue wires into the Arduino.
And the Arduino has some program running
on it that probably turns on the LEDs,
turns them off and on in a particular
sequence, or whatever you want it to do.
So those are the type of components
that you will be using in the class, and
we'll be talking about in the class.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]